# SSL - AI

## Development Guidelines

The code follows the guideline describe in ROS. [ROS_Guideline](http://wiki.ros.org/CppStyleGuide)

### Format

We using a .clang-format file. Caution ! Use the clang-format version 6.0, if your OS doesn't install it automatically then install clang-format-6.0 and rename the command to use the format script.

## Installation

Currently you must use an **Ubuntu 18.04** distribution to work with this software, all shared configurations and projects are support under this distribution.

> You can try to install and use this software on your personal distribution.
> But you should be aware of conan and C++/cmake build system.

### System dependencies

You will need theses packets:

``` bash
sudo apt-get install -y g++ gnuplot python-pip clang-format-6.0 cmake
```

### Setup conan package manager

Install [conan](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/):

``` bash
# Install conan  
pip3 install --user conan
```

NAMEC shares specifics conan [profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/profiles.html) for Ubuntu 18.04.

```bash
# Install NAMEC configuration of conan  for ubuntu 18.04
conan config install http://gitlab.namec.fr/ssl/conan-configuration.git
```

## Build

You can specify a build type when you install conan dependencies by adding `-pr=<profile_name>` after the command `conan install ..` .
Check: http://gitlab.namec.fr/ssl/conan-configuration.git to see all available profiles.

By default all targets are built in **debug** mode.

To build in debug, run:

``` bash
mkdir build_debug && cd build_debug
conan install .. # -pr=debug or default
cmake ..
make -j <number_of_thread>
```

To build in release, run:

``` bash
mkdir build_release && cd build_release
conan install .. -pr=release
cmake ..
make -j <number_of_thread>
```

Then, you can use the following debugging binaries:

* `./build_release/bin/vision`, to display informations from the vision (see `client/vision.cpp`)
* `./build_release/bin/referee`, to display informations from the referee (see `client/referee.cpp`)
* `./build_release/bin/sim`, to send commands to the simulator (see `client/sim.cpp`)

### CMake options

| CMake arguments         | Behavior                                        |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **-DBUILD_TESTS=on**    | build all tests in `build_<type>/bin/tests/`    |

### Documentation

From the root of the repository:

``` bash
cd doc
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make doc
```

Documentation is inside html/ directory.

### For custom distribution

> This part may be out of date, so please read correctly and find out about updates.

If your distribution have differents conan profiles than the shared configuration in this [repository](http://gitlab.namec.fr/ssl/conan-configuration.git), you can try to build all dependencies from source.

You must have `GCC > 7.0` has default compiler and `cmake > 3.10` has default too.

Create your custom profile.

```bash
conan profile new default --detect
```

Then, follow the following instruction recommended by conan :

```bash
conan profile update settings.compiler.libcxx=libstdc++11 default
```

And then update and create equivalent NAMEC profiles:

```bash
cp ~/.conan/profiles/default ~/.conan/profiles/release
conan profile update settings.compiler.build_type=Debug default
cp ~/.conan/profiles/default  ~/.conan/profiles/debug
```

Note that the default profile generated by conan is only for `Release` build, that explain why we edit edit and create your specifics profiles under `~/.conan/profiles/`(see [profiles](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/profiles.html)).

Now you can **try to build** as explain [here](#build).

## Testing

To run the tests once built (see [CMake options](#cmake-options)), just run them under the `build/bin/tests/` folder.

## Packages

Here are the packages:

* `ai`: the package that can all the code relative to the ai.
* `client`: the package to communicate with the SSL official software (vision, referee and simulator)
  * Note that this provides test binaries in `bin/tests` directory
* `viewer`: the viewer to interact with the strategies
* TODO!

## QtCreator

You must already have created a build directory and install conan dependencies at this step.

To use QtCreator, you have to open the CMakeFiles:

``` bash
qtcreator CMakeLists.txt
```

**Uncheck** your usual desktop build kit and **use** the differents `imported_kits`.
Finally click on "Configure Project" button.

Go under `Tools > Options > Kits`.
For all new `imported_kits`, set the C and C++ compilers, you can also rename them if you want, to reuse them later.

**You should alwais build the project from the command line to avoid configurations errors.**

If you want to reset your Qt configuration, just remove the file CMakeLists.txt.user. Also, please never add this file to the git repository.

## Help

If you have strange errors with cmake or something else, you must :
1. Remove all files in your build_directory 
2. Redo the build instructions.

If there is still errors try, run :

```bash
rm -rf ~/.conan/data/
```

It will remove your conan cache and download again all dependancies.
